Today's lecture is on project management. The highlight topic is Agile project development, specifically Scrum.

Project management is a broad topic, but some of the key areas managed through project management are:
    constraint gathering
    project breakdown into task
    time
    customer relations
    key stakeholder relations
    employees / developers

Project managers are responsbile for the project from inception to completetion, and often for some time after due to maintenance.

Lets take a look at an older project management methodology. Waterfall has been around for quite a few years, starting around 1970.

Waterfall takes the following approach:
    gather requirements - customer constraints
    Analysis  - models, schema, and rules
    Design  - project breakdown, wireframes, software architecture
    Coding  - development
    Testing - discovery and debugging
    Operations - install and maintenance

The biggest problem that waterfall faces is client requirements may be different than the finished product for many reasons: business requirements might change, communication might of been unclear, or new features might be added.

The waterfall methodology takes a linear approach, and as such, the project isn't ready for "testing" until all of the coding is completed. This is the underlying cause of the problems that waterfall faces.

Agile development takes an iterative approach by cycling through:
    design
    development
    validation

The big project is broken into smaller task that can be tested and validated rapidly. The primary focus is to initially build a minimum viable product. After the MVP is finished, development takes an iterative approach over the MVP until the product is finished. In this approach, the finished product is not defined initially, it is more of an evolution.

The iterations in Agile are typically called a sprint. At the start of each sprint there is an iteration planning meeting.

Key members of the agile team:
    back end developer
    front end developer
    business analyst
    information architect
    user experience analyst
    quality assurance
    SEO

Key documents for Agile:
    Project backlog
    Sprint backlog

The Project backlog is a list, in order of importance, of all task that the project requires.

The Spring backlog is a list of task that you or your team are working on for the duration of the sprint (usually 1-4 weeks).

Key celebrations(meetings) for Agile:
    Sprint Planning Meeting / Iteration planning
    Daily Scrum Meeting
    Sprint Review / Retropsective
    project review

Scrum teams:
    Scrum Master
    Product Owner
    Development Teams

As a developer, the daily sprint meeting is an important celebration. During this time, each development team member talks (generally under 5 minutes) about three things:
    What I did last week to accomplish my sprint
    What I am going to do today to accomplish my sprint
    What impedments I am facing

This helps to give clarification on your status to all members of the team, as well as helping to identify potential issues that may crop up.

Another important note about Agile development is that test are constantly done during the sprint to validate that your sprint is working correctly. This reduces the amount of bugs found later in the project, and helps to make sure that the project as a whole is working together. Bugs that are found late generally cause additional bugs throughout the program because other parts become dependent on the bug functionality.


Wireframes are a great tool for mapping out your project during the inital phase of project planning. The wireframe should convey what the functionality of your project, typically a GUI or webapp. The wireframe does not focus on things like creativity, colors, or design. It focuses more on the placement of features and how things will interact with eachother.

Pencil is a popular wireframming tool.

For the creative side of project management, frontend developers will usually use a photoshop file (.PSD) created by a designer. These files allow developers to "cut" assets from the PSD to create images and things needed for the website.